In this video, you'll
learn about different
types of firewalls.
These include hardware,
software, and
cloud-based firewalls.
You'll also learn the
difference between
a stateless and
stateful firewall and
cover some of the
basic operations
that a firewall performs.
Finally, you will explore how
proxy servers are used to
add a layer of security
to the network.
A firewall is a network
security device that
monitors traffic to
and from your network.
It either allows
traffic or it blocks
it based on a defined
set of security rules.
A firewall can use
port filtering,
which blocks or allows
certain port numbers to limit
unwanted communication.
For example, it could have a rule
that only allows
communications on port
443 for HTTPS or port
25 for email and blocks
everything else.
These firewall settings
will be determined by
the organization's
security policy.
Let's talk about a few
different kinds of firewalls.
A hardware firewall is
considered the most
basic way to defend against
threats to a network.
A hardware firewall inspects
each data packet before it's
allowed to enter the network.
A software firewall performs
the same functions as
a hardware firewall,
but it's not a physical device.
Instead, it's a software program
installed on a computer
or on a server.
If the software firewall is
installed on a computer,
it will analyze all the traffic
received by that computer.
If the software firewall
is installed on a server,
it will protect all the devices
connected to the server.
A software firewall
typically costs
less than purchasing a
separate physical device,
and it doesn't take
up any extra space.
But because it is a
software program,
it will add some
processing burden
to the individual devices.
Organizations may choose to
use a cloud-based firewall.
Cloud service providers
offer firewalls as
a service, or FaaS,
for organizations.
Cloud-based firewalls
are software firewalls
hosted by a cloud
service provider.
Organizations can configure
the firewall rules
on the cloud service
provider's interface,
and the firewall will perform
security operations on
all incoming traffic before
it reaches the organization’s onsite network.
Cloud-based firewalls also
protect any assets or
processes that an organization
might be using in the cloud.
All the firewalls we
have discussed can be
either stateful or stateless.
The terms "stateful" and "stateless"
refer to how the
firewall operates.
Stateful refers to a class
of firewall that keeps track of
information passing through it
and proactively
filters out threats.
A stateful firewall analyzes
network traffic for
characteristics and
behavior that appear suspicious
and stops them from
entering the network.
Stateless refers to a class
of firewall that
operates based on
predefined rules and does not
keep track of information
from data packets.
A stateless firewall
only acts according to
preconfigured rules set by
the firewall administrator.
The rules programmed by the
firewall administrator tell
the device what to accept
and what to reject.
A stateless firewall doesn't
store analyzed information.
It also doesn't discover
suspicious trends like a
stateful firewall does.
For this reason, stateless
firewalls are considered
less secure than
stateful firewalls.
A next generation
firewall, or NGFW,
provides even more security
than a stateful firewall.
Not only does an NGFW provide
stateful inspection of
incoming and outgoing traffic,
but it also performs more
in-depth security functions like
deep packet inspection
and intrusion protection.
Some NGFWs connect to
cloud-based threat
intelligence services
so they can quickly update to
protect against
emerging cyber threats.
Now you have a
basic understanding
of firewalls and how they work.
We learned that firewalls
can be hardware or software.
We also discussed the
difference between
a stateless and
stateful firewall
and the security benefits
of a stateful firewall.
Finally, we discussed
next generation firewalls
and the security
benefits they provide.
Coming up, we'll learn more
about virtual networks.